docs/python/extensions.rst, before:

.. reviewed 0.4
.. include:: /replace.rst
.. default-domain:: py

Extension points
----------------

The various manager classes specified in a :class:`coweb.AppContainer` derive from abstract base classes representing extension points in the :mod:`coweb` package. New implementations of these base classes can define new methods of authenticating users, controlling session access, launching bots, and communicating with bots.

The creation and use of new managers requires:

#. The installation of the :mod:`coweb` package into the Python import path.
#. The import of the new manager module into an application container script.
#. The configuration of an application container to use the new manager instead of its default.

Revisit the section about :doc:`container` for assistance configuring a coweb server to use third-party managers.

Authenticating users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.auth
   :synopsis: Python package defining the authentication manager interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: AuthBase

   Controls user authentication with the coweb server. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.

   .. method:: requires_login(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to determine if this authentication manager requires a user to enter a username and password into a login form provided by the server.
      
      :rtype: bool
   
   .. method:: requires_cookies(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to determine if this authentication manager requires the use Tornado's secure cookie implementation. 

      :rtype: bool
   
   .. method:: get_current_user(self, handler)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to get the username of the authenticated user or None if the user is not authenticated.
      
      :param tornado.web.RequestHandler handler: Handler requesting the username
      :rtype: str or None
   
   .. method:: check_credentials(self, handler, username, password)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to authenticate a user by checking if the user provided credentials match those known by the manager.
      
      :param tornado.web.RequestHandler handler: Handler requesting user authentication
      :param str username: Username provided by the user
      :param str password: Password provided by the user
      :return: True if the user credentials are correct, false if not
      :rtype: bool
         
   .. method:: clear_credentials(self, handler)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to clear authentication credentials for the request user.
      
      :param tornado.web.RequestHandler handler: Handler requesting user authentication

Controlling session access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.access
   :synopsis: Python package defining the access manager interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: AccessBase

   Controls user and bot access to coweb sessions. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.

   .. method:: on_admin_request(self, username, key, collab)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to prepare a session.
      
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str key: Key identifying the session from :js:func:`SessionInterface.prepare`.
      :param bool collab: Flag from :js:func:`SessionInterface.prepare` set to true if requesting a session supporting cooperative events, false if requesting a session supporting service bot calls only
      :return: Dictionary of name/value pairs to include in the response to the application
      :rtype: dict
      :raise: tornado.web.HTTPError to deny session preparation request
   
   .. method:: on_session_request(self, session, username)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to join a session.
      
      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance the user is attempting to join
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :return: True to allow join, false to deny
      :rtype: bool
   
   .. method:: on_service_subscribe(self, session, username, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to subscribe to a service bot in a session.
   
      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the user is subscribing
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service to which the user is subscribing
      :return: True to allow subscribe, false to deny
      :rtype: bool      
   
   .. method:: on_service_unsubscribe(self, session, username, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to unsubscribe from a service bot in a session.

      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the user is unsubscribing
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service to which the user is unsubscribing
      :return: True to allow unsubscribe, false to deny
      :rtype: bool      
   
   .. method:: on_service_request(self, session, username, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to send a private request to a service bot in a session.

      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the user is attempting the request
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service to which the user is attempting to contact
      :return: True to allow the request, false to deny
      :rtype: bool

   .. method:: on_service_config(self, session, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a service bot first launches in a session.

      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the bot is launching
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :return: Dictionary of name/value pairs to pass to :class:`coweb.bot.BotDelegate` constructor
      :rtype: dict
      :raise: Exception to prevent bot launch

   .. method:: on_service_acls(self, session, serviceName)
      
      The coweb server calls this method when determining the permissions granted to a launching bot.
      
      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the bot is launching
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :return: Bit mask representing of supported bot permissions, currently:
      
         :data:`coweb.access.ACL_NONE`
            No special permissions
         :data:`coweb.access.ACL_SERVICE_SYNC`
            Ability to monitor cooperative events via the :meth:`coweb.bot.BotDelegate.on_sync` callback
         :data:`coweb.access.ACL_SERVICE_ALL`
            All special permissions

      :rtype: int

Launching service bots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.service.launcher
   :synopsis: Python package defining the service launcher interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: ServiceLauncherBase

   Controls the initialization of service bots per session. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.
   
   .. attribute:: _container
   
      Reference to the :class:`coweb.AppContainer` instance of this server
   
   .. attribute:: _bridge
   
      Instance of :class:`coweb.service.ServiceSessionBridge` the launcher can use to get information about its session

   .. method:: start_service(self, serviceName, token, serviceManager, appData)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a service not currently running in the session must to start.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str token: Random token the bot should provide when it authenticates with the service manager
      :param coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase serviceManager: Configured service manager
      :param dict appData: Additional data from the  :meth:`coweb.access.AccessBase` manager configured in the app container to pass to the bot constructor
   
   .. method:: stop_service(self, serviceName, serviceManager)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a service not currently running in the session must stop.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase serviceManager: Configured service manager
   
   .. method:: stop_all_services(self, serviceManager)

      The coweb server calls this method when the session has ended and all services must stop. The server invokes this method after :meth:`coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase.end_services` to allow bots to shutdown gracefully. This method should terminate any bots still running.
   
      :param coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase serviceManager: Configured service manager

Communicating with service bots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.service.manager
   :synopsis: Python package defining the service manager interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: ServiceManagerBase

   Controls communication with service bots per session. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.

   .. attribute:: _container

      Reference to the :class:`coweb.AppContainer` instance of this server
   
   .. attribute:: _bridge

      Instance of :class:`coweb.service.ServiceSessionBridge` the manager should use to post bot data to a session

   .. method:: get_connection_info(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to get information a bot needs to communication with this service manager instance (e.g., a URL, a port number).
      
      :return: Dictionary with name/value pairs specific to this manager and its corresponding bot wrapper implementation 
      :rtype: dict
   
   .. method:: get_manager_id(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to get the unique identifier of this manager. The identifier is used to locate the appropriate :class:`coweb.bot.wrapper.BaseBotWrapper` implementation that can communicate with this manager. Currently, the ID is the name of the package under :mod:`coweb.bot.wrapper` containing the bot wrapper implementation.
   
      :rtype: str
   
   .. method:: end_services(self)

      The coweb server calls this method when the session has terminated, after invoking :meth:`coweb.service.launcher.ServiceLauncherBase.stop_all_services`. The manager should cleanup gracefully here.

      :rtype: None

   .. method:: on_shutdown_request(self, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a session decides to shut down a service bot. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.
      
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :rtype: object
   
   .. method:: on_user_request(self, serviceName, username, token, value)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application requests a bot service. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.
      
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str token: Random token the bot should provide when responding to this request
      :param dict value: Request data sent by a coweb application using :js:func:`CollabInterface.postService`
      :rtype: object
   
   .. method:: on_user_subscribe(self, serviceName, username)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application subscribes to a bot service. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.

      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :rtype: object
   
   .. method:: on_user_unsubscribe(self, serviceName, username)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application unsubscribes from a bot service. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.

      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :rtype: object

   .. method:: on_user_sync(self, serviceName, username, data)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application sends a cooperative event to the session. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.
      
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param dict data: Event data sent by a coweb application using :js:func:`CollabInterface.sendSync`
      :rtype: object

   .. method:: start_services(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when the session is ready to support service requests and responses. The manager can initialize itself here.
      
      :rtype: None
   
   .. method:: send_message(self, msg, impl)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when the manager should send a message it previously constructed to a bot. The manager should transmit the message using whatever transport it supports.
      
      :param object msg: Arbitrary method object previously returned by one of the manager methods
      :param object impl: Arbitrary object previously passed to :meth:`coweb.service.ServiceSessionBridge.auth_bot`
      :rtype: None

Bridging bots and sessions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.service
   :synopsis: Python package defining the service launcher interface, service manager interface, and session-service bridge.

.. class:: ServiceSessionBridge

   .. method:: auth_bot(self, serviceName, token [, impl=None])
   
      The service manager calls this method to authenticate a bot when it first contacts the manager.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str token: Authentication token passed to the bot by the launcher instance
      :param object impl: Optional object the bridge associates with the service bot. The bridge passes it to :meth:`coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase.send_message` when the message is destined for the bot.
      :rtype: None
   
   .. method:: deactivate_bot(self, serviceName)

      The service manager calls this method to indicate a bot shutdown.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :rtype: None

   .. method:: get_session_id(self)
   
      The service manager or launcher calls this method to get the identifier of the session in which it is running.
   
      :rtype: str

   .. method:: mark_bot_subscribed(self, serviceName)
   
      The service manager calls this method to indicate a bot is ready to receive messages from the session.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :rtype: None

   .. method:: on_bot_response(self, serviceName, token, data)

      The service manager calls this method to deliver a bot private bot response to an application instance in a session.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str token: Request token passed to the bot by the manager instance
      :rtype: None
   
   .. method:: on_bot_publish(self, serviceName, data)

      The service manager calls this method to publish bot data to all application instances in a session.

      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param dict data: Dictionary of data 
      :rtype: None

Commit message:

Issue #23. Update the documentation to detail the new updater type matcher extension and its configuration

docs/python/extensions.rst, after:

.. reviewed 0.4
.. include:: /replace.rst
.. default-domain:: py

Extension points
----------------

The various manager classes specified in a :class:`coweb.AppContainer` derive from abstract base classes representing extension points in the :mod:`coweb` package. New implementations of these base classes can define new methods of authenticating users, controlling session access, launching bots, communicating with bots and controlling the type of updater selected for late joiners.

The creation and use of new managers requires:

#. The installation of the :mod:`coweb` package into the Python import path.
#. The import of the new manager module into an application container script.
#. The configuration of an application container to use the new manager instead of its default.
#. The configuration of an updater type matcher implementation used to select the type of updater for late joiners.

Revisit the section about :doc:`container` for assistance configuring a coweb server to use third-party managers.

Authenticating users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.auth
   :synopsis: Python package defining the authentication manager interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: AuthBase

   Controls user authentication with the coweb server. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.

   .. method:: requires_login(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to determine if this authentication manager requires a user to enter a username and password into a login form provided by the server.
      
      :rtype: bool
   
   .. method:: requires_cookies(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to determine if this authentication manager requires the use Tornado's secure cookie implementation. 

      :rtype: bool
   
   .. method:: get_current_user(self, handler)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to get the username of the authenticated user or None if the user is not authenticated.
      
      :param tornado.web.RequestHandler handler: Handler requesting the username
      :rtype: str or None
   
   .. method:: check_credentials(self, handler, username, password)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to authenticate a user by checking if the user provided credentials match those known by the manager.
      
      :param tornado.web.RequestHandler handler: Handler requesting user authentication
      :param str username: Username provided by the user
      :param str password: Password provided by the user
      :return: True if the user credentials are correct, false if not
      :rtype: bool
         
   .. method:: clear_credentials(self, handler)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to clear authentication credentials for the request user.
      
      :param tornado.web.RequestHandler handler: Handler requesting user authentication

Controlling session access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.access
   :synopsis: Python package defining the access manager interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: AccessBase

   Controls user and bot access to coweb sessions. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.

   .. method:: on_admin_request(self, username, key, collab)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to prepare a session.
      
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str key: Key identifying the session from :js:func:`SessionInterface.prepare`.
      :param bool collab: Flag from :js:func:`SessionInterface.prepare` set to true if requesting a session supporting cooperative events, false if requesting a session supporting service bot calls only
      :return: Dictionary of name/value pairs to include in the response to the application
      :rtype: dict
      :raise: tornado.web.HTTPError to deny session preparation request
   
   .. method:: on_session_request(self, session, username)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to join a session.
      
      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance the user is attempting to join
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :return: True to allow join, false to deny
      :rtype: bool
   
   .. method:: on_service_subscribe(self, session, username, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to subscribe to a service bot in a session.
   
      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the user is subscribing
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service to which the user is subscribing
      :return: True to allow subscribe, false to deny
      :rtype: bool      
   
   .. method:: on_service_unsubscribe(self, session, username, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to unsubscribe from a service bot in a session.

      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the user is unsubscribing
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service to which the user is unsubscribing
      :return: True to allow unsubscribe, false to deny
      :rtype: bool      
   
   .. method:: on_service_request(self, session, username, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application attempts to send a private request to a service bot in a session.

      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the user is attempting the request
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service to which the user is attempting to contact
      :return: True to allow the request, false to deny
      :rtype: bool

   .. method:: on_service_config(self, session, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a service bot first launches in a session.

      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the bot is launching
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :return: Dictionary of name/value pairs to pass to :class:`coweb.bot.BotDelegate` constructor
      :rtype: dict
      :raise: Exception to prevent bot launch

   .. method:: on_service_acls(self, session, serviceName)
      
      The coweb server calls this method when determining the permissions granted to a launching bot.
      
      :param coweb.session.Session session: Session instance in which the bot is launching
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :return: Bit mask representing of supported bot permissions, currently:
      
         :data:`coweb.access.ACL_NONE`
            No special permissions
         :data:`coweb.access.ACL_SERVICE_SYNC`
            Ability to monitor cooperative events via the :meth:`coweb.bot.BotDelegate.on_sync` callback
         :data:`coweb.access.ACL_SERVICE_ALL`
            All special permissions

      :rtype: int

Launching service bots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.service.launcher
   :synopsis: Python package defining the service launcher interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: ServiceLauncherBase

   Controls the initialization of service bots per session. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.
   
   .. attribute:: _container
   
      Reference to the :class:`coweb.AppContainer` instance of this server
   
   .. attribute:: _bridge
   
      Instance of :class:`coweb.service.ServiceSessionBridge` the launcher can use to get information about its session

   .. method:: start_service(self, serviceName, token, serviceManager, appData)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a service not currently running in the session must to start.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str token: Random token the bot should provide when it authenticates with the service manager
      :param coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase serviceManager: Configured service manager
      :param dict appData: Additional data from the  :meth:`coweb.access.AccessBase` manager configured in the app container to pass to the bot constructor
   
   .. method:: stop_service(self, serviceName, serviceManager)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when a service not currently running in the session must stop.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase serviceManager: Configured service manager
   
   .. method:: stop_all_services(self, serviceManager)

      The coweb server calls this method when the session has ended and all services must stop. The server invokes this method after :meth:`coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase.end_services` to allow bots to shutdown gracefully. This method should terminate any bots still running.
   
      :param coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase serviceManager: Configured service manager

Communicating with service bots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.service.manager
   :synopsis: Python package defining the service manager interface and its default implementations.

.. class:: ServiceManagerBase

   Controls communication with service bots per session. A subclass must implement all of the methods in the base.

   .. attribute:: _container

      Reference to the :class:`coweb.AppContainer` instance of this server
   
   .. attribute:: _bridge

      Instance of :class:`coweb.service.ServiceSessionBridge` the manager should use to post bot data to a session

   .. method:: get_connection_info(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to get information a bot needs to communication with this service manager instance (e.g., a URL, a port number).
      
      :return: Dictionary with name/value pairs specific to this manager and its corresponding bot wrapper implementation 
      :rtype: dict
   
   .. method:: get_manager_id(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method to get the unique identifier of this manager. The identifier is used to locate the appropriate :class:`coweb.bot.wrapper.BaseBotWrapper` implementation that can communicate with this manager. Currently, the ID is the name of the package under :mod:`coweb.bot.wrapper` containing the bot wrapper implementation.
   
      :rtype: str
   
   .. method:: end_services(self)

      The coweb server calls this method when the session has terminated, after invoking :meth:`coweb.service.launcher.ServiceLauncherBase.stop_all_services`. The manager should cleanup gracefully here.

      :rtype: None

   .. method:: on_shutdown_request(self, serviceName)

      The coweb server calls this method when a session decides to shut down a service bot. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.
      
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :rtype: object
   
   .. method:: on_user_request(self, serviceName, username, token, value)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application requests a bot service. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.
      
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param str token: Random token the bot should provide when responding to this request
      :param dict value: Request data sent by a coweb application using :js:func:`CollabInterface.postService`
      :rtype: object
   
   .. method:: on_user_subscribe(self, serviceName, username)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application subscribes to a bot service. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.

      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :rtype: object
   
   .. method:: on_user_unsubscribe(self, serviceName, username)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application unsubscribes from a bot service. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.

      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :rtype: object

   .. method:: on_user_sync(self, serviceName, username, data)

      The coweb server calls this method when a coweb application sends a cooperative event to the session. The manager should return an object representing the message which the server will later ask it to send using :meth:`send_message`.
      
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str username: Authenticated username of the requestor
      :param dict data: Event data sent by a coweb application using :js:func:`CollabInterface.sendSync`
      :rtype: object

   .. method:: start_services(self)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when the session is ready to support service requests and responses. The manager can initialize itself here.
      
      :rtype: None
   
   .. method:: send_message(self, msg, impl)
   
      The coweb server calls this method when the manager should send a message it previously constructed to a bot. The manager should transmit the message using whatever transport it supports.
      
      :param object msg: Arbitrary method object previously returned by one of the manager methods
      :param object impl: Arbitrary object previously passed to :meth:`coweb.service.ServiceSessionBridge.auth_bot`
      :rtype: None

Bridging bots and sessions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.service
   :synopsis: Python package defining the service launcher interface, service manager interface, and session-service bridge.

.. class:: ServiceSessionBridge

   .. method:: auth_bot(self, serviceName, token [, impl=None])
   
      The service manager calls this method to authenticate a bot when it first contacts the manager.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str token: Authentication token passed to the bot by the launcher instance
      :param object impl: Optional object the bridge associates with the service bot. The bridge passes it to :meth:`coweb.service.manager.ServiceManagerBase.send_message` when the message is destined for the bot.
      :rtype: None
   
   .. method:: deactivate_bot(self, serviceName)

      The service manager calls this method to indicate a bot shutdown.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :rtype: None

   .. method:: get_session_id(self)
   
      The service manager or launcher calls this method to get the identifier of the session in which it is running.
   
      :rtype: str

   .. method:: mark_bot_subscribed(self, serviceName)
   
      The service manager calls this method to indicate a bot is ready to receive messages from the session.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :rtype: None

   .. method:: on_bot_response(self, serviceName, token, data)

      The service manager calls this method to deliver a bot private bot response to an application instance in a session.
   
      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param str token: Request token passed to the bot by the manager instance
      :rtype: None
   
   .. method:: on_bot_publish(self, serviceName, data)

      The service manager calls this method to publish bot data to all application instances in a session.

      :param str serviceName: Name of the service
      :param dict data: Dictionary of data 
      :rtype: None

Controlling the type of Updater assigned to late joiners
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. module:: coweb.updater
   :synopsis: Python package defining the updater type matcher interface.

.. class:: UpdaterTypeMatcherBase

   .. method:: match(self, updaterType, availableUpdaterTypes)

      The service manager calls when a Delegate implementation needs to match an Updater Type for a late joiner.

      :param str updaterType: type of updater of the updatee
      :param list availableUpdaterTypes: list of available updater types
      :rtype: str
