docs/index.rst, before:

.. include:: replace.rst

==============================
Open Cooperative Web Framework
==============================

This documentation describes the |coweb api| v |release|, last updated |today|. 

The documentation starts by introducing cooperative web concepts and describing the architecture and code organization of the framework. The getting started sections explain how to setup a cooperative web server and detail the step-by-step creation of an example cooperative web (coweb) application. The next sections cover the various JavaScript and server-side APIs available when coweb applications. The doc continues with details of the wire protocols used to transmit cooperative events. The final sections describe the changes to the framework across versions and define the various terms used throughout this documentation.

.. rubric:: Table of Contents

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :maxdepth: 3

   intro/intro
   tutorial/tutorial
   js/js
   python/python
   java/java
   protocol/protocol
   changelog
   glossary

Commit message:

Note about doc applying to v0.2 until completion

docs/index.rst, after:

.. include:: replace.rst

==============================
Open Cooperative Web Framework
==============================

This documentation describes the |coweb api| v |release|, last updated |today|. 

The documentation starts by introducing cooperative web concepts and describing the architecture and code organization of the framework. The getting started sections explain how to setup a cooperative web server and detail the step-by-step creation of an example cooperative web (coweb) application. The next sections cover the various JavaScript and server-side APIs available when coweb applications. The doc continues with details of the wire protocols used to transmit cooperative events. The final sections describe the changes to the framework across versions and define the various terms used throughout this documentation.

.. note::
   
   This doc is slated for completion in v0.2. If you're reading it now, remember it applies to the latest code in GitHub, not the last tagged release. After v0.2, it will apply to the latest stable release.

.. rubric:: Table of Contents

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :maxdepth: 3

   intro/intro
   tutorial/tutorial
   js/js
   python/python
   java/java
   protocol/protocol
   changelog
   glossary
